Improve article section (#34135)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/security/server/index.md

## Inject `AuthenticationStateProvider` for services scoped to a component

Don't attempt to resolve <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> within a service that's scoped to a component by [`OwningComponentBase`](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection#owningcomponentbase) because it results in the creation of a new instance of the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> that isn't correctly initialized.

> To access the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> within a service scoped to a component, inject the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> with the [`@inject` directive](xref:mvc/views/razor#inject) or the [`[Inject]` attribute](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.InjectAttribute) into the component and pass the service instance to the scoped service as a parameter. This approach ensures that the correct, initialized instance of the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> is used for each user app instance.

Reviewer: > with the @inject directive or the [Inject] attribute

This ignores new constructor injection in .NET 9. We can remove this detail completely and keep just the

> To access the AuthenticationStateProvider within a service scoped to a component, inject the AuthenticationStateProvider ~~with the @inject directive or the [Inject] attribute~~ **directly** into the component and pass the service instance to the scoped service as a parameter.

> To access the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> within a service scoped to a component, inject the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> with the [`@inject` directive](xref:mvc/views/razor#inject) or the [`[Inject]` attribute](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.InjectAttribute) into the component and pass the service instance to the scoped service as a parameter. This approach ensures that the correct, initialized instance of the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> is used for each user app instance.

Author: ```suggestion
To access the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> within a service scoped to a component, inject the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> directly into the component and pass the service instance to the scoped service as a parameter. This approach ensures that the correct, initialized instance of the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> is used for each user app instance.
```

}
```
  

> In the `Program` file, the `ExampleService` is registered as a scoped service. In a server-side Blazor app, scoped services have a lifetime equal to the duration of the client connection [circuit](xref:blazor/hosting-models#blazor-server).

Reviewer: The sample uses `ExampleService` only with `OwningComponentBase`, and stating that "scoped services have a lifetime equal to the duration of the client connection circuit" is confusing in this context. While this might sometimes be true (when using regular dependency injection where the scope aligns with the circuit), in our case, the lifetime is influenced by the `OwningComponentBase` scoping.

I’m not sure how to resolve this, but for the average reader, this will be a headache.

Author: The phrase "In a server-side Blazor app" is meant to explain that this is ***normally*** the case. I'll adjust the text to make that clear.

> In the `Program` file, the `ExampleService` is registered as a scoped service. In a server-side Blazor app, scoped services have a lifetime equal to the duration of the client connection [circuit](xref:blazor/hosting-models#blazor-server).

Author: ```suggestion
In the `Program` file, the `ExampleService` is registered as a scoped service. When services aren't scoped to a component with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.OwningComponentBase>, scoped services have a lifetime equal to the duration of the client connection [circuit](xref:blazor/hosting-models#blazor-server).
```

> In the `Program` file, the `ExampleService` is registered as a scoped service. When services aren't scoped to a component with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.OwningComponentBase>, scoped services have a lifetime equal to the duration of the client connection [circuit](xref:blazor/hosting-models#blazor-server).

Reviewer: > scoped services have a lifetime equal to the duration of the client connection [circuit]

Technically, this is true only for Blazor Interactive SSR 😇.

How about:
> In the `Program` file, the `ExampleService` is registered as a scoped service. In our sample, we will be using the service scoped to a component with `OwningComponentBase`. For general guidance on the lifetime of scoped services, see the <xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection>.
